- [[course:cssforjs]]
	- # Stacking Contexts
	- In Flow layout, background colors and borders are truly meant to be *in the background*. The content will float on top. That's why the letter `A` shows up on top of the pink box. The truth is that Flow layout isn't really built with layering in mind. Most of the time, when we want to layer elements, we'll want to use positioned layout.
	- As a general rule, **positioned elements will always render on top of non-positioned ones**.
		- What if we set *both* elements to use relative positioning? In that case, the DOM order wins
	- We can think of it as a two-stage process: first, all of the non-positioned elements are rendered (everything using Flow, Flexbox, Grid…). Next, all of the positioned elements are rendered on top (relative, absolute, fixed, sticky)
	- Summary of the above points:
		- When all siblings are rendered in Flow layout, the DOM order controls how the background elements overlap, but the content will always float to the front.
		- If one sibling uses positioned layout, it will appear above its non-positioned sibling, no matter what the DOM order is.
		- If both siblings use positioned layout, the DOM order controls which element will be on top. Unlike in Flow layout, the content does not 
		  float to the front.
	- ## z-index
	- ***`z-index` only works with positioned elements ( or flex, grid )***. ***It will have no effect on an element being rendered in Flow layout.***
		- The default value of the `z-index` property is `auto`, which is equivalent to the number `0`. Therefore, any value greater than 0 can be used to "promote" an element to sit in front of its siblings.
	- Just don't use negative z-index numbers
	- z-index works only in context of a stack. It doesn't get compared or applied globally against anywhere ( if the comparison is being done of elements which are ***positioned***).
		- header ( with position set as relative )
		  main ( with position set as relative )
		      h2
		      p ( with position set as relative )
		- h2 and p would be z-index comparable, not p and header. so even if p might have bigger z-index than header, header would come on top of main because it sits before it in the stacking.
		  
		  > Each stacking context is completely independent of its siblings: only 
		  descendant elements are considered when stacking is processed.
		  > — *[MDN stacking context](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_positioned_layout/Understanding_z-index/Stacking_context)*
		- If they don't have z-index ( no stacking context ), z-index is compared globally.
- # Creating a Stacking Context
	- z-index
	- Setting `opacity` to a value less than `1`
	- Setting `position` to `fixed` or `sticky` (No z-index needed for these values!)
	- Applying a `mix-blend-mode` other than `normal`
	- Adding a `z-index` to a child inside a `display: flex` or `display: grid` container
	- Using `transform`, `filter`, `clip-path`, or `perspective`
	- Explicitly creating a context with `isolation: isolate` (More on this soon!)
	- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_positioned_layout/Understanding_z-index/Stacking_context
- > An easy way to figure out the *rendering order* of stacked elements along the z-axis is to think of it as a "version number" of sorts, where child elements are minor version numbers underneath their parent's major version numbers. This way we can easily see how an element with a z-index of 1 (DIV 5) is stacked above an element with a z-index of 2 (DIV 2), and how an element with a z-index of 6 (DIV 4) is stacked below an element with a z-index of 5 (DIV 1).
  > — *[MDN stacking context](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_positioned_layout/Understanding_z-index/Stacking_context)*
-