- [[tech]] [[resource]] [[web vitals]]
	- Web Vitals Performance APIs changelog:
		- https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/docs/speed/metrics_changelog/README.md
	- Web Vitals Feedback Group:
		- https://groups.google.com/g/web-vitals-feedback
- [[tech]] [[performance]]
	- While the first visit to any website will always involve *some* amount of HTML, a common approach starts with a minimal initial bit of HTML, and then JavaScript is used to populate the content area. Subsequent updates to that content area also occur as the result of user interactions. This is usually called the [single-page application (SPA) model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-page_application). ***One drawback of this pattern is that, by rendering HTML with JavaScript on the client, you not only get the cost of the JavaScript processing to create that HTML, but also the browser will *not* yield until it has finished parsing that HTML, and rendering it.***
	  
	  It's vital to remember though, that even websites that *aren't* SPAs will probably involve some amount of HTML rendering through JavaScript as the result of interactions. This is generally fine, so long as you're not rendering large amounts of HTML on the client, which can delay presentation of the next frame. However, it's important to understand the performance implications of this approach to rendering HTML in the browser, and how it can impact the responsiveness of your website to user input if you are rendering a lot of HTML via JavaScript.
	  
	  — [Optimise INP](https://web.dev/optimize-inp/)
	- > If you're using `requestAnimationFrame()` to do work that doesn't involve changes to the user interface, understand that you could be delaying the next frame.
	  >
	  > – [Diagnose Slow Interactions In The Lab](https://web.dev/diagnose-slow-interactions-in-the-lab/)
- [[toyj]]
	- From time to time, like today, Amma sits and revises me where all her gold and diamond is kept, so that I am informed just in case. Also, today:
	  
	  > The latest statement for the GPF came, and I am so glad that it has 73L now. People think this amount is nothing, but for me, it's so much, it's the culmination of my hard work in life.
	  
	  I patted her on her back and said that I was proud of her.
-