- [[book]] [[The Carpet People]] [[books]] #humourwriting
	- When Snibril has the shiny shield up his face to prevent himself from looking at Termagant's eyes
	  
	  > It ought to have turned to stone. It saw itself! So much for bright ideas, he thought. And it was the only one I had.
	- > Then the creature collapsed on the floor, put its paws over its eyes, and began to sob. Every now an then it'd drum its back feet on the floor. The sobs started at the tail end, by the look of it, and got bigger and bigger as they gulped their way up towards the mouth.
	  >
	  > It wasn't only terrifying. It was also embarrassing. Nothing should have that many tears in it.
	- When the termagant died.
		- > To Snibril's amazement it began to coo at its reflection, and lay back again with the mirror cuddled in its arms. And then termagant, with a clank, died peacefully in the temple that had been built for it time out of time.
		  >
		  > Often, later, it was said by minstrels and wandering story-tellers that the termagant died when it caught sight of itself in the mirror. Never believe what you hear in songs. They put in any old thing if they think it sounds better. They said that its reflected glance turned it to a statue. But the death of the termagant was more complicated than that. Most things are.
	- The small statue, the King, who came to life after Snibril poured Termagant's tears on him
		- > We Deftmenes are *correctly built,*' said Brocando. 'It's no business of ours if everyone else is ridiciously overgrown'
		- [[card]] [[word]] Glower
		  card-last-interval:: -1
		  card-repeats:: 1
		  card-ease-factor:: 2.5
		  card-next-schedule:: 2023-06-25T18:30:00.000Z
		  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-06-25T08:16:02.509Z
		  card-last-score:: 1
			- have an angry  or sullen look on one's face, scowl.
		- [[card]] [[word]] **Soirée**
		  card-last-interval:: -1
		  card-repeats:: 1
		  card-ease-factor:: 2.5
		  card-next-schedule:: 2023-06-25T18:30:00.000Z
		  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-06-25T08:17:08.976Z
		  card-last-score:: 1
			- an evening party or fathering, typically in a private house, for conversation or music.
		- [[card]] [[word]] **Whinny**
		  card-last-interval:: 4
		  card-repeats:: 1
		  card-ease-factor:: 2.6
		  card-next-schedule:: 2023-06-29T08:17:13.025Z
		  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-06-25T08:17:13.025Z
		  card-last-score:: 5
			- a gentle, high-pitched neigh.
- [[tech links read today]]
	- https://web.dev/vitals-tools/
		- Tells about when and when not to use particular web vitals analysis tools
	- https://web.dev/vitals-field-measurement-best-practices/
		-