- [[book snippets]] [[The Carpet People]] [[books]] #humourwriting
	- # Chapter 7
	- Brocando was in the centre of a crowd of chattering, staring Munrungs, ***beaming benevolently***
	- > 'Greetings, oh King.' said the old man. 'Honoured are we that so great a song of so noble an ancestry should deem us ***worthy to…er…worthy***
	- The Dumii didn't like kings. They preferred Emperors, ***because they were easier to get rid of***.
	- > 'Hate them,' Brocando had said bluntly. 'I'd fight them because they straighten roads, and number things, and make maps of places that shouldn't be mapped. They turn everything into things to Count. They'd make the hairs of the Carpet grow in rows if they could. And worst of all…they obey orders. They'd rather obey orders than think. That's how their Empire *works.* Oh, they're fair enough, fair fighters in battle and all that sort of thing, but they don't know how to laugh and at the end of it all it's things in rows, and orders, and all the fun out of life.'
	- When they were having the evening meal Glurk said to his wife: 'He's very gracious. Asked all about me. I've met a *king*. He's very important. He's called Protocol, I think.'
	  
	      'Good name. Sounds Royal,' she said.
	      'And Pismire's a philosopher, he says.'
	      'I never knew that. What's a philosopher?'
	      'Someone who thins, he says,' said Glurk.
	      'Well, *you* think. I've often seen you sitting and thinking.'
	      'I don't always think,' said Glurk conscientiously. 'Sometimes I just sits.' He sighed, 'Anyway, it's not just thinking. You've got to be able to talk about it entertainingly afterwards.'
	- # Chapter 8
	- > Tara the Woodcarver himself made the Crown. Seven pointy bits, with salt crystals on each one'
	- Snibril took up his spear. This was like hunting. You learned about the different kinds of silence. There was the silence made by something frightened, in fear of its life. There was the silence made by big creatures, waiting to pounce on small creatures. Sometimes there was the silence made by no one being there. And there was a very sharp, hot kind of silence made by someone there — *watching.*
	- [[card]] [[word]] Skulk
	  card-last-interval:: 4
	  card-repeats:: 1
	  card-ease-factor:: 2.36
	  card-next-schedule:: 2023-06-29T08:16:12.645Z
	  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-06-25T08:16:12.645Z
	  card-last-score:: 3
		- keep out of sight, typically with a sinister or cowardly motive.
	- [[card]] [[word]] Usurp
	  card-last-interval:: 4
	  card-repeats:: 1
	  card-ease-factor:: 2.6
	  card-next-schedule:: 2023-06-29T08:17:15.911Z
	  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-06-25T08:17:15.911Z
	  card-last-score:: 5
		- take illegally by force
	- [[card]] [[word]] quarry
	  card-last-interval:: 4
	  card-repeats:: 1
	  card-ease-factor:: 2.6
	  card-next-schedule:: 2023-06-29T08:17:18.174Z
	  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-06-25T08:17:18.175Z
	  card-last-score:: 5
		- cut into (rock or ground) to obtain stone or other materials
	- > 'Huh. Brothers!' he (Brocando) muttered. 'Nothing but trouble, eh? Plotting and skulking and hanging around and usurping.
	  
	  Glurk felt he had to show solidarity with the unofficial association of older brothers.
	  > 'Snibril never kept his room tidy, I know that,' he said.
	- > I don't know how to say this. . . do you know what the word "moul" means in moul language? Hmm? It means . . .  True Human Beings.'
	- *The first sign of Glurk ever outsmarting his usual self. Having just clarified that Brocando wanted his meagre tribe to fight mouls and his brother's army:*
	  
	  > 'Good Man' said Brocando, 'I knew we could depend on you! I shall need half a dozen stout-hearted men!'
	  >
	  > **'I think I can let you have one astonished one,' said Glurk.**
	- [[card]] [[word]] Trundle
		- move or cause to move slowly or heavily
	- > Nearly as bad as discovering all your worst fears are coming true, Snibril thought, is finding out that they're not
	- # Chapter 10
		- [[card]] [[word]] Parry
			- ward off (a weapon or attack) with a countermove
			- answer (a question or accusation) evasively
- [[toyj]] [[relatives]]
	- I met Himanshu and her newly wed wife, but long time girlfriend Pratibha. All three of us went to the same school. They met with each other really early in life I think when Himanshu was in 8th or 9th grade and Pratibha was in 6th or 7th grade. I also met Himanshu's eldest sister Priyanka Didi.
	- It was weird when Himanshu addressed me as 'Arihant'.
	- I had a hard time explaining it to Priyanka Didi that I don't feel like an adult still, and that I feel like kid — so much so that even the people whom I should be calling Didi — like my cook didi, etc… I end up calling them Aunty because in my mind I'm still that kid who would call them that.
	- We went to their new resort place where they've just started the kitchen. They started off as a place to have parties exclusively. Pratibha said that when they threw the new year's party, Nahan's people had a talk going on that it was unlike any other party Nahan had ever seen. I felt really happy to hear that.
	- I think Himanshu was a lowkey annoyed to have to keep us (me) company. I felt that because when we were insisting on paying the bill and he was like 'Arre, tomorrow when we go to Arihant's he wouldn't take money from us now would he,' when he won, he said, looking askance, 'Thank you' that felt sarcastic. I could be wrong.
	- [[people]] Sherub married a girl from Odissha