- [[writing:storyidea]] the day of a money plant in the vase where the owner keeps putting different flowers everyday
- [[tech]] [[tech:summary]] [[tech:article]]
	- https://web.dev/dom-size-and-interactivity/
	- # HOW
	- CSSOM. More CSS Selectors <-> Complexity, more browser has to do work to find which elements are affected when a change happens => more layout, styling, compositing, paint
	- DOM insertion, deletion => layout, styling, compositing, paint.
	- JS queries of DOM, which result in a lot of DOM elements, can be memory intensive.
	- # Measure DOM Size
	- **Performance Monitor** in chrome dev tools
	- # Measure Affected DOM Elements
	- See a > 200ms ( threshold for INP ) task? See 'Recalculate Style' corresponding to it and see **Elements Affected** in the **Summary** tab
	- # How To Reduce DOM Size
	- Fragments
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
	- Limit CSS Selector Complexity
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
	- `content-visibility`
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- TODO https://web.dev/content-visibility/ [[tech:article]]
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
- [[tech]] [[tech:course]] [[css]] [[course:cssforjs]]
	- # Module 0
	- ```html
	  <style>
	    p:first-child {
	      color: red;
	    }
	  </style>
	  
	  <section>
	    <h1>Hello world!</h1>
	    <p>This is a paragraph!</p>
	    <p>This is another paragraph!</p>
	  </section>
	  ```
	  
	  `p:first-child` tries to apply to the paragraph which is first child of its container. Hence the above will not style first paragraph as red.
	- What we need is `first-of-child`. It ignores any sibling that aren't of the same type.
	- `::before` and `::after` #pseudoelements shouldn't be used in components era. They have screen reader problems (some try to vocalise the `content` others ignore it entirely). So they shouldn't be used exclusively with `content` property. However if they are used for completely decorative purposely, they can be used (or with an empty `content: ''`)
	-