- [[toyj]] #memories #insecurity #6monthsoflearning
	- I very visibly remember June 2016 ( or around ) when UK's google chrome's dev rel team at the time: super smart people Paul Lewis, Surma, Jake Archibald, Matt Gaunt etc… had come for a wonderful conference. Anusheel and I went. I remember three things from that conference:
		- I liked Matt Gaunt very much.
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- I was blown away by what the team was bringing to the web. Jake Archibald's SVG animations filled talk about Promises just blew my mind away.
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- I was a witness to everything, never a participant. I've only ever stood by the side of people already discussing something, listening. It'd take a lot to even go up to a bunch of random strangers talking about something that I know something about, because I felt that I didn't know anything. 
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
	- Number 3 is still the case. After all these years of working, I don't have any agency of my own, do not have things to say, stand up for. For all these years, it's the reason I've not really achieved anything significant in my career. There are several other factors for that as well. But I guess what I'm trying to say is, whatever situations, external or internal, I think that I've been in, I feel alone, still, fidgety. I think a lot of it has to do with idealistic ways which I think I'd walk on someday. For example I see Bun's creator Jarred Sumner and what he achieved in the past 1.5 years with Bun and I get inspired. But I never do anything about that inspiration, never act on it. I am always too listless.
	- The days that are coming up to my last day in my current company. I have the set of list of goals I've put on Notion but I'm not acting on them. It is time though. It is time to forget about money – something that I've been obsessed to save in the past, have had colossal arguments because of it. It is time to just sit, read, implement, try, fail and learn. Most importantly fail and overcome and learn. So let this be the first post of #6monthsoflearning tag. Where I write to keep myself accountable. I think that's the only thing and only form that I can be accountable to: writing.