- [[Book Notes]] [[The Cooking of Books]]
	- > When the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance came to power in 2001, the director's post lay vacant. I sent a note to the prime minister, Di Manmohan Singh, outlining the importance of the ==NMML==, and urging him to constitute a committee of experts to choose the next director through an open and transparent process. He read the note but was powerless to act on it, since the Congress president, Mrs Sonia Gandhi, had decided that, as the place was named after Jawaharlal Nehru, she must, as the keeper of the family's legacy, have the final say about how it would be run.
	  
	  Unlike Dr Singh, Mrs Gandhi was no scholar. She was prone to promote people on the basis of loyalty, not competence. So, advised by her acolytes, she chose a student of the historian Bipan Chandra, himself a longstanding Congress Party loyalist, as the next director of the NMML. ==The new director, instead of encouraging historical research, paid back her dues by involving the Congress Party in the NMML's programmes and events. Sonia Gandhi's son Rahul was even allowed to hold Youth Congress meetings in a place that had hitherto focused on scholarship and been kept free of partisan political influence. Rather than using the funds of the institution to upgrade its research facilities - getting new microfilm readers, for example - they were splurged on such things as parties for schoolchildren on Jawaharlal Nehru's birth
	  anniversary.==
	- > The Beethoven trip was superlative from start to finish. I wanted to spend a little time at his grace, to put flowers on it as thanks. He was burried thrice: the original cemetery in Vienna became defunct so he was reburied in a new cemetery. This new cemetery was then superseded by a cemetery on the outskirts of Vienna where the Viennese wanted to re-bury their greatest citizens, and LvB now has the grandest and most central grave in an area devoted to Viennese musicians. Schubert, Mozart, Strauss Sr, and Strauss Jr form a sort of circle around him. It's about 45 minutes by tram to reach the cemetery. At the entrance I bought red begonias, because they are the prettiest flowers in Ranikhet, and placed them on the tombstones. Then, being a Sindhi, I put a one-rupee coin next to the floewers because that way He'd know it was me ( there were some earlier floewrs, and the coin was put to make sure he knew this worshipper was a Peccavian)
	  — Rukun
	- About Vipin Handa, written by Rukun
	  > He taught English for some years, edited an arts journal, and resisted for long the disease to which Indians generally succumb early and which is known as ==SIMPLEA (Standard Indian Middle-class Parental Pleading: All Good Boys must become *Babus*. All Good Girls must become *Bahus*. Both must conjoin and produce *Babas*)==
	- > Vipin Handa was an example of Stephenian whom Rukum unreservedly liked. A Stephanian he was distinctly ambivalent about was their exact contemporary, Shash Tharoor. Both ranked first in their class – Tharoor in History, Advani in English – but there the resemblance ended. Shashi was, even in college, very much a public man, debating, acting, becoming president of the Wodehouse Society and the Quiz Club before being elected president of the College Union. He was charming and outgoing, but, from the start, ferociously ambitious. Shashi wanted to make a mark in the world, quicker and more dramatically than any Stephanian (or perhaps any Indian) before him. Whereas Rukun had no ambition to become well known. ==In college, all he wanted to do was read, listen to music, and have one-on-one conversations with friends.== In OUP, all he anted to do was edit books; while he glorified in the success of his authors, he never remotely wanted to take any credit for this.
	- What Anu, Rivka, Rukun, and I chatted about at lunch I now forget. However, I do remember that when my friend drove me to the market where my taxi waited, he said, 'I wish you had stayed longer.' I nodded in assent, but on resuming the drive to Kausani realized it was wise that I had not. ==I had seen him long nough to sense that he was happy in his reclusiveness. To mail him sometimes, to think of him often, made me happy too==. But to demand to speak to him more – on the phone  or in the flesh -  would be ( as his old teacher Brijraj Singh had sensed) an intrusion. Things were best left as they were – for now.
	-