- #card #word Abut
	- (of a building or an area of land) be next to or have a common boundary with
	- Example: Jyotsna, Raghavi and I were in Hyderabad, sitting on the parapet wall of a house abutting a mosque
- #card #word incumbent
	- necessary for (someone) as a duty or responsibility
- #card #word gumption
	- shrewd or spirited initiative and resourcefulness:
	- *the president would hire almost any young man who ***had the gumption to*** ask for a job*.
- #card #word paternalism
	- the idea that it's justified to interfere with a person's liberty or autonomy for their own good
- #readinglog
	- [Women in Public Spaces - A Chaotic Chess Match with Patriarchy](https://thethirdeyeportal.in/structure/women-republic/)
		- > If women are praised, rewarded, derive social benefits for being compliant and are openly stigmatised for being resistant, then physical force is often rendered unnecessary. Especially in social narratives where women are often rewarded as ‘good women’, women themselves need not see gender inequalities being produced and reproduced within their families. Instead, they are very likely to see it as a ‘natural part’ of their families, as a natural part of being in love and being loved. So, the very idea that conflict or violence is the *only *indication of exploitative relationships is theoretically very thin.
			- This is the reason patriarchal submission is enforced by women for other women in the family and in society in general 🤯. It must be so difficult—for women who've been conditioned to see this as reality—to take a look at it for what it is.
		- > This doesn’t mean that there are no negative emotions, but they are often painted over with the colours of love, harmony, obligation, social role and tradition.
			- #toyj Very sadly, this was also what I saw when I was the subject of intervention for my mother in 2023 new year's day, when everyday said bad things about my mother, without actually being helpful or understanding as to how she can be helped. The color of care and concern over complains and outright denial of anything I had to say felt like this. I didn't have words for that, until now. Paternalism. Wow.
		-