- #storycompost
	- [Meghalaya Fruit and Wine Industry](https://www.thehindu.com/life-and-style/meghalaya-fruit-wine-industry-market-demand-government-policy-dura-kynjai-asame-shillong/article68854273.ece)
		- https://www.thehindu.com/life-and-style/meghalaya-fruit-wine-industry-market-demand-government-policy-dura-kynjai-asame-shillong/article68854273.ece
	- te.gism — the fruit with a dot in its name. Also known as Himalayan cherry.
	- Used to make wine.
	- Grows in Garo hills Meghalaya.
	- Remained virtually unknown until botanists documented it less than a decade ago.
	- Most Garo families are used to brewing *bitchi*, a smoky rice beer made from local sticky rice.
	- Wines made from seasonal fruits—gooseberry, pineapple, cherry, silverberry, bayberry, black plum, jackfruit.
	- Bayberry—sweet note, jackfruit—pungent and acquired taste.'Blue wine made from butterfly pea flower.
	- Average cost of setting up a winery of 5000-litre capacity is ₹50 lakh, excluding land and buildings.
	- Began with Michael Syiem of the Shillong-based Forever Young Club organising the city's first wind festival in 2004 to showcase an array of wines made from indigenous fruits and vegetables.
	- MEFC (Meghalaya Farmers' (Empowerment) Commission)
	- Meghalaya's indigenous fruits—shohiong, sophie, sohshang, sohphlang, sohphoh, sohphoh khasi grow naturally. Eaten as fruit, exactly that fruit used to make wine.
	- Many of these wild fruits are protected in the sacred groves of Mawphlang, village 25km southwest of Shillong. No one is allowed to take anything — not even a fallen leaf — from the groves that became a tourist attraction after a British army officer set up India's first winery in the village in 1947 — Capt. Harold Douglas Hunt. Died in 1980s, when the operation stopped.
	- His grandson Andrew Nongdhar has overhauled his wineryy to produce the 'old popular wine'
	- In September 2020, the Meghalaya Excise Rules (Assam Excise Rules 1954) were amended to legalise home-made wines and provide licences to local winemakers to go commercial.
	- 1000 litres per cycle trainig facility for winemakers, at the Institute of Hotel Management, Catering Technology and Applied Nutrition on the outskirts of Shillong—North East Fruit Wine Incubation.
	- Average cost of 750ml bottle of fruit wine is ₹600
	- Says Sohliya: 'One of the factors behind the stress on winemaking was to check the wastage of fruits and vegetables. Meghalay's terrain does not allow large-scale farming, and farmers have invariably can't sell all they grow or collect from the jungles. Their fruits of labour often rot;  the rate of wastage is similar to India's average of 40% for fruits and vegetables throughout the supply chain. A tonne of fruit for 200 litres. A farmer who earned 3000 per sohiong tree now makes 15000 a season, while kiwi, plum, peach, pineapple, orange, and jackfruit farmers have upped their income from 3000 to 3 lakh. Also shift from farming to gathering fruits.'
	- >The Meghalaya government imposes no VAT on fruit wines compared to 4%-53% VAT in other Indian states. The only levies are an ad valorem of ₹100 per case (12 bottles) and a retailer’s lifting fee of ₹10 per case.
- #card #word Ambit
	- the scope, extent, or bounds of something
- [[story:generalidea]]
	- A fictional world where I live with my Paternal Aunty after everybody moves away from the country and only two of us are left. She shares her secret life she lived as an unrealised(to the world) lesbian.
- #toyj #writing #aol
	- rewriting 'The Storytellers' story, spending almost 2 days on it, and switching between present simple and past simple, now that I read more of Addie Larue, I understand the text better, I observe the things that I struggle with and I pause to ask more 'How would I have written this?' This is the reason I have been thinking for a couple of days now, how Deepika Akka keeps saying that the real deal of this knowledge and grace can only be felt when one becomes his divine instrument in spreading the knowledge. I didn't understand it first, dismissed it as something a Coterie of teachers would say, because they've done it. But I understand now.
	- [I read Kothai's intimate sharing of dealing with grief over the years about her father](https://seventhhorse.substack.com/p/stranger-things-to-remind?utm_source=share&utm_medium=android&r=djagj&triedRedirect=true). Reading
	  
	  > I knew how Appa breathed as I often watched him rest in afternoons as a child wondering if he had died in his sleep
	  
	  I remembered I used to do this for Daadi
	- There's a certain tinge of flavour that boils for a short time and still feels cold, when the memories of old friends and lovers ignite—like a stone thrown by time as you walk thinking about something else—or worse, nothing at all. This is not the first time that this has happened—a memory has come flying from the corner of the mind and wrapped it entirely. But that doesn't make it any easier. It's like a mourning that has happened a thousand times, and though the pain, if any—even in the hiding behind reminiscent smiles—isn't fresh, it throbs dull in an ache, a phantom wound. And you learn to walk, again.