- [[tech:idea]] An recipe/food tracking/nutrition tracking/grocery tracking app
	- The app would have a 'house' as an entity.
	- There are >= 1 people living in the house.
	- Any user on the platform can make a 'house' (akin to a group) and invite users ( if they aren't on the app ) or add them ( if they already are ).
		- In order to prevent making search functionality to find people to add, one can just ask the other people for their public user id ( shown in their profile picture ), in order to add them.
		- Each user can share their own nutritional needs — the amount of nutritional value they need per meal and in one day in total.
	- The app makes going about food in life super easy.
	- There is a registry/list of recipes. A recipe can have labels. A required label from a list of pre-defined set of values would be type of cuisine: asian/italian/vietnames/japanese et all… This label would be the only one required. If it makes sense it can be a separate kind of value on the recipe altogether instead of put under labels. Be the best judge for yourself for what could be better to be able to filter / search later from the latter, later. The other labels should be filterable too.
	- There's a registry/list of all ingredients. Each ingredient has all the nutritional value stored against it per unit.
	- Anybody in the house can add a recipes and/or ingredients.
		- Each recipe can be preferred to only be eaten for breakfast, lunch, snack or dinner, or combination of multiple of those.
		- Each recipe has
			- name
			- instructions
				- the format of the instructions should be such that the quantity of the ingredients could be tokenised, such that when the recipe is show in the UI, the serving could be changed, and it should change it in the instructions as well.
			- the quantity of each ingredient that is required ( for one serving )
			- total nutritional value
				- this I think might be a good idea, if the nutritional value of the sum of ingredients is separate from the whole cooked thing. If you know this to be true, design likewise. If this is not the case in majority of the recipes across the world, never mind about it.
			- meal history—when was it cooked, how many servings, who ate it and how much.
			- question: ==how do we define a serving?==
			- Each ingredient
				- nutritional value: protein, carbs, fat, calories, fiber, etc… (fill up any more nutritional metrics that you deem should be added).
				- Which recipes this ingredient is used for and what quantity of it.
	- There's a tracking of which ingredients are there in the house and in what quantities
	- Each ingredient should be able to list all the recipes it is included in.
	- I want the app to be smart to be able to
		- Figure out, according to a nutritional value defined by each user for themselves, the best 3 recipe suggestions, taking into account
			- If enough ingredients are there
			- If there are not enough ingredients, suggest the ingredients and their quantity to buy by taking a prompt of serving.
			- The recipes should not be repeated if possible, if they have been eaten in the last 3-4 days.
			- The recipes should also take into account what kind of day people are having
				- Say I'm having a very busy day
				- Or someone is having their periods
		- These suggestions should be two fold
			- One level of suggestions catering to the whole house
			- One level of suggestions for each individual member of the house visible to them ( and optionally with their permission open to the whole house to read/see )
	- Ability to track the portion of a meal eaten by any member of the house, if any leftovers were stored in the refrigerator, and if any member of the family ate that meal. Basically the lifecycle of the cooked meal ( also the history of meals and portions eaten by members of the house). Anybody in the house can log the % portion stored in the leftover and the consumer of that left over meal.
	- Ability to track meals ordered online or meals eaten online, with mandatorily having to enter estimated calories. ( ideal of this would be to just click some pictures and an AI system be able to give the guesstimate but that later ).