- #neilgaiman #masterclass
	- #writing #writingexercise
	  collapsed:: true
		- Choose a folk tale or fiary tale that you know well. Select one of the characters from the story for the following exercise, write a few pages about the, using one of the following prompts
			- Pretend you're a therapist treating the character. Write a scene in which you discuss the character's life and problems, then arrive at a diagnosis.
			- Write a newspaper article describing the events of the story. Then write a story for that headline using journalistic objectivity.
			- Have your character explain their actions to a jury.
		- **The Tale of Sohni Mahiwal**
			- Possible tale I'd want to write about?
			- Sohni, a potter’s daughter, falls in love with a rich trader named Mahiwal. Despite her family’s resistance, Sohni risks her life, swimming across the river each night with the help of an earthenware pot to meet Mahiwal. One tragic night, her sister-in-law replaces the pot with an unbaked one, and Sohni drowns in the river. This story symbolizes the timeless, transcendent nature of love and sacrifice.
	- #writing #writingexercise
	  collapsed:: true
		- Write compose hope of a week's things that have captured your attention
			- What interests you? A word, movie, person, even, can be anything me. Subjects, people, etc… Try to include things from other arts—for example, foods, music, or movies.
		- For something you're writing—create subject of your compost heap
			- e.g. if you're writing about Greenland, gather all the words you can about snow, ice, flora, fauna, geological formations, weather occurrences. Research history and arts and science. Write down all the words you love and that you think could go into your novel/writing
- #writingcompost
	- id:: 67288bcb-439c-4f8f-9c70-6107235ab0cf
	  > It’s very hard to find spaces that are always available, safe and protected from climate hazards, and don’t force you to spend money to stay.
	  
	  > Climate- and community-resilient futures offer so many unique relationship models to dig into. Solidarity instead of charity. Redemption instead of villains. Broad support networks instead of limiting care and love to blood relatives and romantic interests.
	  
	  > Queer people have been building non-familial support networks for ages, and that feels much more nurturing to me than the nuclear family model. I don’t want kids, and I don’t want to prioritize romantic relationships as the ultimate form of connection.
	  
	   > — [*2024 2200 Winner Story Interview*](https://grist.org/climate-fiction/imagine2200-to-labor-for-the-hive/)
	  
	  > [Winner Story](https://grist.org/climate-fiction/imagine2200-to-labor-for-the-hive/)
- #writingcompost #word #card Diasporic
	- the dispersion or spread of a people from their original homeland**
- #readinglog
	- I read [this](logseq://graph/toyj?block-id=67288bcb-439c-4f8f-9c70-6107235ab0cf)
	- I listened to #VESchwab podcast with R.L.Stine
	- I read some Addie Larue
- #writinglog
	- I followed the compost advice from Neil Gaiman, started drawing a Miro board, taking  #VESchwab's advice to think about the whole story first. So far it has been rewarding, it brought me out of my block. Amrita also helped with a small block about a character.