# LitMart 2024
	- 250-500 word proposal/synopsis covering story idea, **background and/or characterization and/or plot summary** along with an excerpt or a chapter from your manuscript (1-4 pages ). Fiction, non-fiction, graphic novels and poetry.
	  
	  Max two entries.
	- ## Pitch Format
		- Storytelling, short video, slide deck, short play or musical, dance, stand-up, improv, anything, as long as it is within THREE minutes.
		  
		  Pitch followed by short Q&A from the jury. Pitching in front of a live audience.
	- ## Deadline
		- 11pm IST, Wed, 13th November
		  10 finalists notified by 10pm 17th November 2024 via email
	- ---
	- ## Entry 1
		- A collection of short stories.
		- What is the common thread between these three stories
			- The Storytellers
				- How magical and fantastical things—things nobody knows exist, affects how people live and interact with each other.
			- Circular Lines
				- Absurdity of space time and how much we know about where we are at any given moment.
			- Arkaja and The Secret World of Blobs
				- How magical and fantastical things—things nobody knows exist, affects how people live and interact with each other.
				- An element of substantial change, a power that could compete with the most powerful institutions of the world—money/capitalism, organised and exploitative versions of mass religions.
			- The Sun and the Leaves
				- The absurdity of time, memory glitch, a circular life experience, dystopian, hopeful, poetry.
		- Playground
			- Set in the shocks of the unknown
			-
		- ## Advice From The Internet
			- From Quora
				- focus on the **conflicts**
				- explain **themes** you cover and how the collection employs those themes
				- describe why your book is **unique**, think like a **marketer**
				- first few sentences should be a pitch, how does the collection appeal to a contemporary reader.
				- Read a lot of back cover synopsis from other short story collections and imitate their pace and tone. You want to be captavating but not overwhelming. The synopsis pitch should be divided into several sections.
				- Something like, “Two brothers in a small American town wake up one morning to realize they are the only two people left on Earth. They struggle to invent ways to rebuild the human population. Even after years of refusing to speak to one another after an intense family conflict, they recognize cooperation between them is necessary for success in their mission. In this collection, we face their conflicts and adventures alongside them as they slowly use their respective expertise to resolve problems arising from their unique situation. They learn a great lesson together that could teach generations how to cope with internal family struggles, economic hardships, societal pressures, and world crises.”
				- Your next paragraph would uncover more about the plot and structure of the book. More details, in other words.
			- [The difference between a pitch and a synopsis: Harper Collins Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XiXi8XRr6Uk)
				- Synopsis
					- map of manuscript
					- gives all inside information
					- plot, characters, spoilers, if a character dies or marries at the end
					- briefly, concisely tell, important themes/symbolism
					- where's it set, what happens to the characters
					- it is not the first thing you read.
				- Pitch
					- first thing they will read about manuscript
					- use to sell story to them
					- If you get a publisher in a lift for a bit and you have to tell them what's your book about, that's your pitch
					- succinct, snappy, want to make them wanting more—element of anticipation
					- > 4 daughters, a vast fortune, and a mother who thinks she knows best, where there is a *will* there is a way
					- Only two or three sentences, every single word counts
					- Make it realistic
					- What kind of story? Charming? Funny and Uplifting? Moody and Dark? Psychological Thriller? Poignant and funny comedy? Short, pithy, compressed.
					- Look at some of your favourite novels, look their backs, look at headline statements, you'll see variations of the pitch.
			- [From this online article/blog post](https://emmaashmere.com/2020/03/10/crafting-a-short-story-collection/)
				- *Put your characters up front*, one suggested. *X does Y in Z.*
- # Examples
	- > While his wife sleeps, a husband prowls the Internet, obsessed with female serial killers; a bureaucrat tries to reinvent himself, exposing goodness as artifice when he converts to Buddhism in search of power; a woman sits on the edge of the bed where her lover lies, attempting to locate a motive for his violence within her own self-doubt
	  — Karate Chop
	- "meticulously observed glimpses of everyday life that expose the ==ominous lurking under the ordinary=="
	- "Shifting between moments of violence (real and imagined) and mundane contemporary life, these stories encompass the ==complexity of human emotions==, our ==capacity for cruelty as well as compassion==. Not so much minimalist as stealthy,"
- #writinglog
	- Researched to write pitch and synopsis for [litmart 2024](https://bangaloreliteraturefestival.org/year-2024/litmart/)
- #readinglog
	- Read all my previous stories.