- #people #Niharika #toyj
	- met after a couple of days
	- she told about
		- family expecting baby, but not saying anything because her husband's elder brother and her wife haven't had, so they sort of became the juniors in the business
		- 'Shauk hogya puura, job karli, aage bhi karlena, but have a baby and then do' — Niharika's mother to her
			- 'Kyun kiya bada ambition ke saath, school me hi na daalte, college na bhejte, kya hai ye?' — Niharika to her mom in her head
		- came from a nuclear family and with in-laws found herself bring dragged in for even the smallest of decisions that she otherwise takes in split seconds – what to wear on an occasion, what to eat, etc… etc…
			- 'I come from the nuclear family, where despite the daant and maars we got, the next moment it was like chalo jao. Zinda  ho kaafi hai types' ( paraphrased )
		- How prepping for basic German exam took a toll on her, for 7 months, for 7-8 hours a day ( 5 hours of class + home work + house chores + travel etc…)
		- 'I love your brother's name (Aryamann) but I keep forgetting them.'
		- My sister is 28, doing UPSC for the fourth time – wohi shaadi nahi hori hai to karo
		- 'My in-laws (astrologer) shifted to Bengaluru after Gurgaon. His elder brother and his wife used to live in Doddanekundi. When we went out, they shifted here, parents came as well, sold everything in Gurgaon. Sachit's mother, an astrologer, had prepared herself that her younger son will be going abroad to not return, so all of this prep came as a given to her.'
		- New lifestyle in Germany, it took some time to adjust, but I thank for the work life balance. In India, there would be no cut off for work time and on weekends he would have to keep opening the laptop for something urgent. I would be like 'why have you brought me here, if it's just to bring you food plate, why don't you hire someone to do this'. But here, there's time. Pehle, living in a join family, even our fights would be dragged just by the fact that there wouldn't be space to have them peacefully and it would be dragged with everybody, sometimes for days. Living in Germany, fights are done and dusted in a couple of hours.
		- 'Are Germans rude?' I ask. She said, 'Sometimes.'
			- Told about a neighbour, who asked where we were from, and telling 'from India,' she was like, 'Girl, that makes sense, but the boy is so white! Are you sure you are from India?'
			- Germans are Bhukkhad — cooked for 20 people, didn't have anything left for the week. 'Aise chaat jaate hain Indian food ko.'
		- 'Really want to start working now.'
		- The dome structure that I keep telling looks like a thermal plant, she said was a parking circle roads thingy going up, because there were no windows in it. I was baffled, I said 'wow, that makes sense, because…', I lingered, 'I'm an architect'
		- Told about the small bracket of salaries Architects are underpaid in India. 'I'd gladly be unemployed than underpaid.' Told that it's difficult to set up one's own practice, because she would have to pass other German language examples ( intermediate, and forth), and said she didn't have the stamina or will at the moment after spending 7 months to clear the basic thing. 'I don't want to boast, but people spend years, for what I did in 7 months. They return half of the exam fee if you clear under 2 years after registration.'
		- Kept cutely eating her thumb. I remember staring into her dark, big brown eyes and feeling fascinated.
		- Chided me about how I had said that it'd be difficult to meet after this, in Lathiani, and teased how we have gotten to meet a couple of times since then. I responded that was the pretentious, overly dramatic writer self in me that said that.
		  collapsed:: true
			-
			-
			-
		- Remembered Lathiani.
		- She told how in master's, she was surprised to see Varnika's mail being forwarded from one of her department teachers.
		- Discussing about Varnika, she remarked that the friends who are not online, are the ones she hasn't been able to keep in touch.
		- Told about how I was one of the few people who didn't 'other' her, with her confidence that came from living in UAE, independently, her accent and the like.
		- Showed mutual surprise on being put on a pedestal for having studied from an NIT, in her masters, by her colleagues and friends and classmates. Complained about how it angered her, professors and peers celebrating in awe and respect the fact that she was married  and *yet* doing masters. 'Being married,' came in professional introductions, God knows for what reason.
-