- #word #card Pigeonhole
	- assign to a particular category, typically an overly restrictive one.
- #toyj
	- Aryamann got me a surprise keyboard. It's a keychron Q1 v2. I really like this keyboard. Keys and switches are hot swappable. It's very easy to use because it has mac layout. I am just loving it so much. Bhai is the best. I love him so much. I wish we keep becoming more and more friends and bhais and keep having each other's backs.
	- I have realised that the birthday app could have a very nice problem solved: say I want a keyboard, I'd be able to exactly layout what kind of keyboard, what kind of keycaps and switches and board I want. If I want a basketball jersey, I'd be able to tell which player's jersey and what size I want. The thing about someone asking you which one you want, when you are not there, and you start to ensure that they've picked the right one, although it's okay, it takes a way the agency and love of the gift a little bit, and starts feeling like something you've asked them to buy. Either way, I've learnt to take the gifts graciously and make the best out of it, and not help them nitpick the exact thing that you want, because then it'd take the juice out of the gift, for the both parties. It's a nice new learning. I've been loving the keyboard. Because it's hot swappable, I could always in the future, change switches and keycaps. Thanks for picking up something very customisable bhai! Thank you for the jersey Jass! I don't have to be concerned about the size, I trust you, and I know you know me very well, and even if, by chance—which has a very small possibility—it might not be the size I want, I'll wear it with equal measure of love and passion.
- #writingcompost #toyj
	- There's an old household help, who pushes another old woman in her wheel chair every afternoon around the society podium. The ones who sits always look grave, serious, and perhaps sad. I don't know what medical conditions she has. The household help is an old person too, possibly in her early 70s or late 60s, and both of them float around the podium quietly. Today when I saw them I tried to observe them a little more than I usually do. But I couldn't do anything other than what I usually do—keep seeing them and ask questions I might not get answers to. The first obvious one—what's the back stories of both of these women, now reduced, at this point of time to floating walks together in the afternoon. Maybe reduced is very reductive. So not reduced, but which has led them to these floating walks in the afternoon.
- #authorstoread
	- [Karl Ove Knausgård](https://www.google.com/search?sa=X&sca_esv=1811162b4bcf03fb&biw=1440&bih=811&sxsrf=ADLYWIImVTVKnrGwndUDBNi5XGyOV-VRDA:1731256122863&q=karl+ove+knausg%C3%A5rd&stick=H4sIAAAAAAAAAONgVuLUz9U3SKkwMjN4xGjCLfDyxz1hKe1Ja05eY1Tl4grOyC93zSvJLKkUEudig7J4pbi5ELp4FrEKZycW5Sjkl6UqZOcllhanH15alAIAjF7vg1oAAAA&ved=2ahUKEwi1uN_Rl9KJAxWZwjgGHVTjKKYQ1i96BAg4EAo) got to know from [Manav Kaul's interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JujwVmAl1jI)
- #devlog
	- Listing for ingredients and nutrients pages