- [[course:cssforjs]]
	- # Text Rendering
	- ## Introduction
	- different ***kerning*** algorithms: reason for different letter placement in different browsers
		- kerning: spacing between individual characters.
	- css allows:
		- `font-kerning: none`
		- `letter-spacing`: but it only helps allow amplifying kerning that browser gives us.
	- fonts look different in the same browser but across operating systems
	- ***bitmap font:***: early days of computing: fonts were collection of images
	- ***vector formats:*** today: ttf, otf, svg, woff/woff2: store mathetical set of instructions for each character.
		- letters can be scaled to any size without pixellation or blurriness.
	- ***rasterization:*** in order to turn vector font into characters on a screen, though, the browser has to figure out which color to make each pixel.
		- simplest method: filling any pixels that vector path crosses over.
		- produces pixellated text
	- Browser applies ***anti-aliasing***
	- ## Font Smoothing, Oooodan Esmooother
	- `-webkit-font-smoothing`: helps switch aliasing algorithm, but works ***only on macOS and only in Chrome/Safari/Edge***
		- Different values: `subpixel-antialiased` ( default ), `antialiased`, `none`
			- `subpixel-antialiased`: fancy technique that uses the R/G/B elements of a pixel to produce more-precise anti-aliasing. Essentially, we can increase the *perceived* resolution by "borrowing" a single color from a neighboring pixel.
			- from far away it looks white.
	- ***high-DPI:*** every software pixel is being mapped onto multiple hardware pixels.
		- Modern iPhones have a 3x device pixel ratio, which means each software pixel is being represented by 9 hardware pixels.
	- > Since macOS Mojave, released in 2018, Apple has *disabled subpixel antialiasing by default*. If you use a retina display, subpixel antialiasing appears to do more harm than good, creating muddier, less-legible text.
		- Confusingly, however, macOS browsers like Chrome and Safari don't "inherit" the system default. We need to explicitly flip it to use `antialiased`:
		- ```css
		  *, *:before, *:after {
		    box-sizing: border-box;
		    -webkit-font-smoothing: antialiased;
		  }
		  ```
	- Firefox: `-moz-osx-font-smoothing`, but with only two values: `grayscale` and `auto` and mostly `auto` defaults to `grayscale`. Not much difference with any of them.
	- Windows has subpixel-antialiasing algo, but it isn't exposed to css.
	- KHTML ( by KDE ) -> (fork) -> Apple for Webkit
		- 2013: Google Chrome forks Webkit -> Blink
	- Nowadays: Chrome, Edge use Blink
	- ***Forking is the reason why `-webkit prefixes are supported in many non Safari browsers`***
	- ## Text Overflow
	- ### Non Breaking Spaces
	- ***Soft Wrap Opportunities:*** Each whitespace character, `-` are those, along with others mentioned in spec.
	- ***Way to add space but which doesn't add soft-wrap opportunity:*** `&nbsp;`
	- ### Balanced Text
	- text is left such that one word remains at the end of the line, alone.
	- `text-wrap` property, proposed by Adobe. 70% support on [[Feb 29th, 2024]]
		- javascript polyfill
		- `React Wrap Balancer` by Shu Ding.
	- ### Wrapping into Multiple Lines
	- `overflow-wrap`: linewrap longer words/strings:
		- `break-word`: break after any character
		- show hyphen with break-word:
		  
		  ```css
		  hyphens: auto;
		  /* Prefix for Safari */
		  -webkit-hyphens: auto;
		  ```
		- > ⚠️ **Gotchas  (warning)**
		  hyphens: auto` only works if the `lang` attribute is set on the `<html>` tag (and it mainly only works in English, though some browsers have added hyphen support for other languages; [see a complete list](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/hyphens#browser_compatibility) on MDN).
		  > Also, `hyphens: auto`varies quite a bit between browsers and devices. Chrome will add hyphens to a long URL on macOS, but not on Windows. Firefox doesn't support [hyphenated words on proper nouns](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1550532).
	- ***Ellipses:***
	  ```css
	  overflow: hidden;
	  text-overflow: ellipsis;
	  ```
	- > Overflow management kicks in after line breaking algo
		- which is to say that line breaks might happen with the above code and ellipses won't happen.
		- to disable line breaks altogether: `white-space: nowrap;` and then add the above ellipses code.
	- ***`-webkit-line-clamp`***: to show ellipses after particular no. of line breaks.
		- despite the prefix, it works in all browsers.
		- but it needs a couple of more declarations to work:
			- ```css
			      display: -webkit-box;
			      -webkit-box-orient: vertical;
			      -webkit-line-clamp: 3;
			      overflow: hidden;
			  ```
			- future of this property, to not have to do four declarations: `line-clamp` but still in early days of dev.
		- In certain cases, `-webkit-line-clamp` can appear buggy, showing thin slices of truncated text below the ellipsis.
			- certain cases: the el clamp is applied to is flex child. Here's the reasoning: direct children inside a flexbox/grid parent will 
			  be stretched according to the flex/grid layout algorithm. We need our clamped paragraphs to use Flow layout. So by wrapping our paragraph in a div, we ensure that the correct layout mode is used.
	- > ***TRIVIA***: Firefox doesn't support hyphenation on Capitalized Words.
	- ## Print-style Layouts
	- ### Column Layout
	- `columns: 3`, `column-gap: 16px;`
	- If don't want to break particular child across columns:
		- ```css
		  p {
		    break-inside: avoid;
		  }
		  ```
	- ### Floats
	- A floated element is like a boulder in a stream; the other content flows smoothly around it. In this case, text wraps seamlessly around an image, but we can use this trick for *any* embedded element, not just images!
	- ### Indents
		- ```css
		    p {
		      text-indent: 2rem;
		    }
		  ```
		- Another way, but `::first-letter` pseudo selector mostly used to style first letter
		  ```css
		    p::first-letter {
		      margin-left: 2rem;
		    }
		  ``
			- In the future, doing "drop caps" will be as simple as using a single CSS property:
				- ```css
				  p:first-of-type::first-letter {
				    initial-letter: 2; /* Number of lines to span */
				  }
				  ```
				- At the time of writing, this property is [not yet supported in Firefox](https://caniuse.com/css-initial-letter). Given that this is a purely cosmetic effect, it may be alright to use it anyway, depending on the circumstances.
	-