- [[Books Notes]] [[The Cooking of Books]] [[author: Ramachandra Guha]] #books #book
	- > (pg. 93) While living in Delhi I had begun sporadic research on the social history of Indian cricket, taking time off from my Elwin work to look at microfilms of old newspapers in the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library. Back in the early years of the twentieth century, before India was accepted as a Test-playing nation, the major domestic cricket tournament was the Bombay Quadrangular, played between teams representing the Europeans, the Parsis, the Hindus, and the Muslims. This ran from 1912 to the 1940s, becoming a Pantagular along the way, with the addition of a fifth team carrying the splendid name of 'The Rest'.
	  >
	  > While taking notes on the newspaper coverage of this tournament, I had focused not so much on the cricket as the politics around it. ==This included the politics of *race* – how did the ruling whites react if they lost a match?; the politics of *cast* – if the best cricketer in the Hindu team was born in an Untouchable home, could he be made its captain?; and the politics of *religion* – did the existence of separate cricket teams for Hindus and Muslims fuel political rivalry between the two communities.==
	- > However, whereas my jobs in Delhi had given me the freedom to occasionally work in the archives or at home, the one institution that offered me a professorship in Bangalore – ==the National Law School – insisted that I come there every day from Monday to Friday, arriving not later than 9.30 a.m. and leaving not before 5 p.m.== That was a condition I was not prepared to meet, ==so I chose to abandon the safety of a tenured academic position for the uncertain life of an independent writer.== The financial and moral support of my wife was crucial in my taking this decision; although, I suppose, the inspiring example of Verrier Elwin, that author of enduring works of scholarship who never had a job, also played a part.
	- ---
	- A #research #idea: history of people who didn't play it by the book in their careers.
	- ---
	- > Even 'however' and 'so to speak', placed in the middle of a nicely fluid sentence, can make it sound pontifical. Quieter, straighter, unbroken sentences are generally a lot more attractive. The need to sound authoritative is an academic ailment which should be replaced by the subtler desire to sound tentatively certain.
	-
- [[Book Reference]] #booksuggestions
	- Weapons of the Weak: Everyday Forms of Peasant Resistance – James Scott
		- > genre-bending, discipline-defying book that is one of the great works of modern scholarship
	- Mahatma Gandhi: Non-Violent Power in Action – Dennis Dalton
		- > one of the four or five best books on Gandhi ever written
	- By K.T ( Thammu ) Achaya
		- Indian Food: A Historical Companion
		- (Sequel) A Historical Dictionary of Indian Food
	- [The Flavours of Nationalism: Recipes for Love, Hate and Friendship](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40922864-the-flavours-of-nationalism)
	-