- #[[readtoday]]
	- https://www.theswaddle.com/the-price-of-friendship-with-a-good-man
		- > His response was hostile. He had a deluge of things to say to me, from criticizing all the decisions in my personal life to a calculated inventory of his favors – including comforting me after an incident of sexual harassment – all seemingly calibrated to trigger me into hysteria. That was the reaction he wanted, the reaction that would allow him to claim that I was being "emotional," to infantilise me.
		- > For them, it's an opportunity to exercise their paternalism, to palliate the hurt they created to begin with. By crying, I was conforming to what was expected of me – to cry instead of retaliate to his accusations, to be feminine, whatever that means. In crying, I was accommodating my male friend’s feelings. To him, it was me conceding, choosing his care instead of his ire. I realised he was probably not even reading the news that week. Although if he had been, his response would still have been paternalistic.
		- > As a female friend to your guy friend, you are thus slotted into roles you never took on. You have to be a doll he can joke about women with, a makeshift therapist, and a walking encyclopaedia of feminism – expected to answer his every question with the ethnographic authority of lived experience. Since you're not offering sex in return for his friendship, you offer him something else: an alibi. Your sheer existence in his life guarantees him that he’s not like the other men. And when he does something wrong, others will cite you.
		-