- #relationshipadvicetoyouari
	- # You have to be trauma informed!
	- Don't ask J to not eat something, or to eat after a while, or to eat differently. Yesterday, even with the best of intentions, you asked her to eat popcorns a little while after dinner(which we did at 7:30 while watching Foundation's first seasons second last episode), so that the stomach doesn't go for a toss. Her trauma about what people have said right from the start of her conscious life about her body—
		- You are beautiful, sexy irrespective of how you look—this by the way you ended up saying when she asked you to say something nice, which was a big mistake.
		- Her mother finding it a personal failure for how her body developed and looked.
		- Asking her to eat/not eat/eat differently/eat later, have been triggers all her life.
	- Sends her in a very black spiral from where it's extremely difficult to get out.
	- What helps:
		- Saying that you love her body and you find it sexy, beautiful and cute. Keep it in the present moment.
		- Not staying silent—if you are not able to understand what to say, just sing.
		- Kissing.
	- Don't take anything she says personally. This is very important. Nothing she says when she's emotionally overwhelmed or in spiral should be taken personally. It's not about you, it's about what she's going through. You can't start justifying back to anything she said. For example she said yesterday
		- Sometimes I think that you are a kid who has been asked to sit on a chair, when they'd rather play outside. She said this in the context of my wanting to do something else—like I just wanted to read one last page of the db book—something that I'd told her I would do later before I got up for dinner—but *having* to be around and with her. I went into a very weird emotional reason for why that was at *that* time—that I couldn't do anything else, when she'd jibe at me—she had asked what I wanted to do immediately after we were done watching the last episode, and I told her I'd just finish that last page, and she'd said very quickly, in a reaction in the passing—*So you don't want to chill with me*, and gone inside—this was about an hour into the trigger that had happened when I had asked her to eat popcorn half an hour later.
		- She shared that sex and physical intimacy is a way for her to feel sexy without words, in a given sort of way. There was no need to bring up my stuff and say, 'but I feel helpless…' It's not about you, it's about her. I know it feels very difficult to not say anything, to not presume otherwise—because all of this is so entangled by virtue of being together, but at that time, you acknowledge, you say I love you, you kiss, sing, say I understand, and that it must be really hard for you to deal with this right now, and just be—in whatever clumsy, holding, hugging way you can.