- #dalits #adivasi #tribe
	- https://www.instagram.com/p/DKrI0u-yTmi/
		- Professional hired mourners for upper caste funerals(funerals weren't aesthetic enough)
		- Is vanishing, but women left behind are left with no work, no recognition, no rehabilitation
		- Mostly in Rajasthan, some in MP, UP, Bihar to mourn deaths of male landlords
		- Typically dressed in black because of widowhood
		- Work: chant names of dead, singing songs of praise and loss and even self-harm rituals(beating their chest, pulling hair)
		- Brahminical norms considered it inappropriate for 'respectable' upper-caste women to show emotion to commoners. Expected to remain composed in public, ==so grief had to be outsourced to someone whose dignity was not 'at stake'==
		- Dalit women seen as 'disposable' bodies through which emotions could be *performed* and *discarded*.
		- Rudaalis externalised grief so that elite women could internalise it quietly.
		- Widows are not spared from the exploitation of upper-caste men, ostracised because *untouchables*.
		- Certain villages are advised to remain indoors in the early morning because they're regarded as unlucky and unfortunate.
		- Hyper visible at events, but socially invisible the rest of the time (!!!!)
		- Feudal system that commodified pain, made to perform emotion on demand.
		- Until 1990s, they charged 5-6 rupees for their services
			- wailling
			- rolling on the ground
			- beating their chests
			- accompanying the dead to cremation site
			- were paid raw onions and left over rotis
		- Maintained performance for minimum of 12 days.
		- The length and dramatic nature of the mourning period often reflect family's economic standing.
- #techidea
	- I don't know what it is exactly, but, what if, there was a stimulation for every person's phone call—an animation, a bunch of shapes, numbers, whatever…a processing/p5 sketch that you could customise either manually (through a visualisation generator), or dynamically through cues—voice of groan when you see the phone call in real time, other factors—how is your relationship with this person survey kinda thing and the visualisation pre-built + dynamic factors(groan etc…) laid over it.
- #learning #p5js #code
	- Learnt about this [landscape elevation animation](https://editor.p5js.org/natureofcode/sketches/Rw2uKJLU2) using perlin noise. [It's explanation](https://chatgpt.com/share/685662a0-0bec-8009-93e7-943eb6233de5)
		- ## TL;DR
			- `QUAD_STRIP` (connected vertices) and `vertex`, p5.js somehow takes care of duplication, with columns and rows of sheet like interconnected polygons(rectangles here)
		- To add axis for seeing where axis are, additional code:
			- ```js
			  function draw() {
			    // Ok, visualize the landscape space
			    land.calculate();
			    background(255);
			    push();
			    translate(0, 20, -200);
			    rotateX(PI/3);
			    rotateZ(theta);
			    drawAxes(200) //<-------------
			    land.render();
			    pop();
			  
			    theta += 0.0025;
			  }
			  
			  
			  function drawAxes(len) {
			    strokeWeight(2);
			  
			    // X axis - red
			    stroke(255, 0, 0);
			    line(0, 0, 0, len, 0, 0);
			  
			    // Y axis - green
			    stroke(0, 255, 0);
			    line(0, 0, 0, 0, len, 0);
			  
			    // Z axis - blue
			    stroke(0, 0, 255);
			    line(0, 0, 0, 0, 0, len);
			  }
			  ```
		-
-